---
layout: post
title:  "Chasing a dream -- making the offer"
date:   2026-01-23
featured_image: morro.jpeg
tags: [Escrow, Rehab]
---

This is it!

It's about time to get this train moving out of the station. 

The Orca St project is moving toward a successful close of escrow. Nothing is guaranteed but we are optimistic. 

<h2>In and Out of Escrow</h2>

This property didn't look easy... it was intimidating. 

Soon it will be love at first sight. But for now it was a shocker. 


And yet -- wow what a view. Every angle -- from the loft, the living room, the kitchen -- took our breath away. 

<!--more-->


Panorama Drive only has 20 homes. This is the highest, most unobscured on the street. 

This is the best view in Morro Bay. 

The house is a very cool, modern architectural design. It's currently in disrepair but this visualizer gives us a sneak peak: 

{% include image_full.html imageurl="/orca/images/exterior-visualizations.png" title="Escrow" caption="Visualization" %}


With vision in mind, we offered a lower amount and lost the bid. Just as we predicted, the higher offer backed out. This is an extremely intimidating project, so we were there with a backup. 

Our second offer was accepted. Now the real work began!


## Contracting

The rehab budget is the biggest rock to put in first. And the south wall is the biggest part of the rehab budget. 

The structural soundness of any single family comes first. 

Thankfully, the original builders put this home on a gigantic commercial footing foundation, sufficient for a building three times this size. 

But the wall was failing. 
